{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Oblique;\f2\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red255\green255\blue255;\red38\green38\blue38;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c20000\c20000\c20000;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww15380\viewh8680\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Abstract W\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\fs24 \cf0 There is a secret blackness in white, a secret whiteness in black, a fixed flickering of Being and Non-being \'85 - 28 - Alain baidou\
\
Black\'85.a light other than light p 41 \
\
The artist\'92s ethics has only one imperative, to go on. Keep searching, beyond the black, for the ultrablack of the black, and so on. - baidou\
\
Black and White, the extremes of the colour spectrum represent full absorption and total reflection. They contain objects in dark, absorbent colours that invoke feelings of security, but also fear, that represent earthiness and intuition. - Thomas Widdershoven, Creative Director of the board Design Academy Eindhoven\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb3 \'91I saw that it was no longer black that gave meaning to the painting but the reflection of light on dark surfaces,\'92 he says. \'91Where it was layered the light danced, and where it was flat it lay still. A new space had come into being.\'92 He eventually named this new space\'a0
\f1\i outre-noir
\f0\i0 \'a0 (\'91ultra-black\'92) - Soulages ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://Christies.com"}}{\fldrslt Christies.com}})
\fs28 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf0 \
images:\
Global Marketing - Hans Haacke - 2012\
Concerto in Black and Blue - David Hammons - 2002\
Rorshach test cards 	1, 4 & 5 - Hermann Rorschach - 1921\
All Soul - Lorna Simpson - 2016\
Black America Again - Lorna Simpson - 2016\
Hands - Lorna Simpson - 2016\
Head on Ice #3 - 2016\
Untitled - Pierre Soulages - 1959\
Untitled (black on grey) - Mark Rothko - 1970\
Untitled (back is) - SAULT - 2020 album cover\
2001 A Space Odyssey - Stanley Kubrick - 1968 - film still \
Untitled - Ad Reinhardt - 1954\
Outrenoir / beyond black Soulages -\
	Peinture 18 Mars 2010 - Pierre Soulages\
	Peinture 19 Fevrier 2009 - Pierre Soulages\
	Peinture (Polyptyque C) 1985 - Pierre Soulages\
	Peinture 11 Juliet 2987 - Pierre Soulages \
	Peinture 2008 - Pierre Soulages \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'91My pictures are poetic objects capable of receiving what each person is ready to invest according to the ensemble of forms and colours that is proposed to him,\'92 - Pierre Soulages 
\f2\fs28 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf4 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\'93There are nuances between the blacks. I paint with black but I\'92m working with light. I\'92m really working with the light more than with the paint.\'94 - Pierre Soulages\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \cb1 Different leads such as the reaction to obscurity and absence of daylight of the suprachiasmatic nucleus controlling the circadian rhythms, sending information to the pineal gland and resulting in the production of cortisol and melatonin will be explored. }