{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue-Light;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red24\green24\blue24;\red255\green255\blue255;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;\cssrgb\c12157\c12157\c12157;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;
}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww23320\viewh10220\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Quites architecture \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The use of black in Architecture should not be perceived as a decorative feature but more as a technical and psychological tool. Beyond cultural perceptions, it always have a strong impact on people whether it be a positive or negative one. Through different case studies we can see how the clients were reluctant to use black at first and ended up very pleased with the effect it created. The aim is to explain how to make good use of black in order to create the intended effect and also to identify its physiological and psychological influence. \
\
We will see that we can actually produce different blacks using light, texture, reflection, etc. that will all induce various emotions. Bridges from colors to psychology and neuroscience have been extensively researched, however, black is the opposite as it is the absence of light. How is lack perceived by the human eye and the optic chiasma? Why does it have such a strong impact on people if it is only \'93nothing\'94 to the human eye? What is the difference in our optical and neuronal perception between the \'93color\'94 black (used on walls, ceilings, floors\'85) and the black, void, total absence of lighting? \
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.brikbase.org/sites/default/files/2016-09-16%20ANFA%20Conference%20Abstract_63.pdf"}}{\fldrslt \cf2 https://www.brikbase.org/sites/default/files/2016-09-16%20ANFA%20Conference%20Abstract_63.pdf}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs30 \cf3 \cb4 Black monoliths batten down into themselves, shutting out the extraneous environment, discouraging interlopers and casual observers.\
\
A black facade might perform legibly as a nonverbal sign to serve public safety, as with Dutch canal houses originally colored black to communicate that a resident had plague. A tool of warning eventually became a matter of aesthetic taste. Nineteenth-century British architects turned to black as a tool to cope with pervasive soot that sullied everything, by covering the grime with colour.\
\
Luxury products signal sophistication and prestige, as does a black shopping mall in Istanbul.\
\
Black effectively and authoritatively says, "Keep out." Equally, it can ask us to "go inside," metaphorically, for an introspective experience.
\f1\fs24 \cf2 \cb1 \
\
\
\
IMAGES (12)\
-\
-\
-\
-\
-\
-\
-\
-\
-\
-\
-\
\
\
OTHER\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 Black is at the same time a color and not a color. It is defined as the absorption of light, the absence of electromagnetic radiation as well as the equal combination of the three primary colors. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs30 \cf3 \cb4 The Puritan House of the Seven Gables is the built equivalent to Protestant love of black dress as a symbol of abstemious piety. \
A Swedish bank embodies black's value of authority and stolidity. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1\fs24 \cf2 \cb1 Different leads such as the reaction to obscurity and absence of daylight of the suprachiasmatic nucleus controlling the circadian rhythms, sending information to the pineal gland and resulting in the production of cortisol and melatonin will be explored.\
\'93 Monolith \'94}