{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2513
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;
\f3\fnil\fcharset0 HelveticaNeue;\f4\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red20\green20\blue21;\red255\green255\blue255;\red30\green30\blue31;
\red49\green49\blue49;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c10196\c10196\c10588;\cssrgb\c100000\c100000\c100000;\cssrgb\c15686\c15686\c16078;
\cssrgb\c25098\c25098\c25098;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The dog that emerges from the dark can be interpreted as the artists\'92s foreshadowing of his death. In many mythologies dogs appear as guides to the land of the dead. - man and his symbols \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 For most in the Western world, death has faded from consciousness and has sunken into\
the untouchable. - Alexandra Fidyk - An Aesthetic of black 
\f0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
The Georgians and the Victorians produced strict etiquette mourning guides, which covered not only clothing, but how long a widow should wait before appearing in public and other such points. The cementing of black as the universal colour of public mourning is usually attributed to the very lengthy, much publicised mourning period of Victoria after the death of Albert. 
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Queen Victoria mourned the death of her husband for 40 years.
\f2\fs28 \cf2 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
 {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/comments/19kb1i/howwhen_did_black_become_the_color_of_mourning/"}}{\fldrslt https://www.reddit.com/r/AskHistorians/comments/19kb1i/howwhen_did_black_become_the_color_of_mourning/}}\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs30 \cf4 It's been done forever, in most parts of the world. Black is worn because like death and loss, it is dark and deep, a never ending void of nothing. Black is the absence of light as is death. In some cultures people will wear white to a funeral as well. It all depends I think on how people prefer to approach death, but in general because black is considered formal as well as a morbid colour it is seen as more respectful to wear black to a funeral or when in mourning.\
\
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 \
Works:\
Fasting Buddha - Gandhara Pakistan - 2nd century \
Vision of death - Gustave Dore - 1868\
El Perro - Francisco Goya - 1823\
Skull - {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.loc.gov/resource/highsm.31023/"}}{\fldrslt https://www.loc.gov/resource/highsm.31023/}} - Fort Worth - Texas 2014\
Riding with Death - Jean-Michel Basquiat - 1988 \
Buddha - Gandhara - 2nd Century\
The Knight of Death - Salvador Dali - 1934\
Knights of Death - Salvador Dali - 1937\
Death Listened to the Nightingale - Edmund Dulac - ????\
Death and Life - Gustav Klimt - 1910\
The Park and the Angel of Death - Gustave Moreau - 1890\
Death - Maximilian Pirner - 1893\
Dead Mother I - Eigon Schiele - 1910\
Death Day - Carlos Schwabe - 1890 \
The garden of Death - Hugo Simberg - 1896\
Harelquin and death - Konstantin Somov - 1907 \
Death on a Pale Horse - J M W Turner - 1830\
\
Queen Victoria - Charles Clifford - 1861\
\
\
Song: \
don\'92t shoot guns down - sault \
\
other: 
\fs28 \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539 \cf5 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Ancient Rome is the earliest recorded instance of wearing black to mourn. The toga pulla, which means\'a0{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Toga#Varieties"}}{\fldrslt 
\f4\b \AppleTypeServices\AppleTypeServicesF65539\AppleTypeServicesF393217 \ul dark toga}}, was the type of clothing worn by mourners. Toga pullas also sometimes were worn in times of private danger or public anxiety, or even during protests. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://frazerconsultants.com/2016/06/mourning-in-black-a-history/"}}{\fldrslt https://frazerconsultants.com/2016/06/mourning-in-black-a-history/}}\
\

\fs24 \AppleTypeServices \cf0 \cb1 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 Queen Victoria mourned the death of her husband for 40 years (died in 1861) - wearing only black //\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa300\partightenfactor0

\f3\fs30 \cf4 \cb3 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Black is a bleak colour. There is nothing eye catching about it, nothing gaudy, neither is it over the top or bright. Often, it is seen as respectful to stay away from things such as jewellery, heavy makeup, glittery or loud fabrics and unnecessary accessories when in mourning. So black (and in other cultures white) has made this a popular colour because of its completely plain nature, as well as its darkness being symbolic of the wearer\'92s emotions and mental State of the time. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.quora.com/Why-is-the-colour-black-associated-with-mourning"}}{\fldrslt https://www.quora.com/Why-is-the-colour-black-associated-with-mourning}}}